# MT001-ZBD
MT001-ZBD Z80 board with single step and memory edit

Originally intended to support debug of an old Z80 Single Board Computer.

IC4 can be either an original nmos or a later cmos Z80.

IC1, 2, 5 and 6 buffer the address, data and control lines from the Z80 to a target system.

IC9 provides the single step function.
IC9B monostable is approx 0.3 seconds and functions as both de-bounce and auto repeat. 
IC9A has pins 14 and 15 grounded, and functions as an edge triggered latch with reset, avoiding the use of a separate IC as used in most Z80 single step circuits

IC3, options to support 2K, 8K, 32K, to allow standalone use without connection to a target system.

IC7, 74LS138, used as a simple address decoder with links X5, X6 and X7 to select the size of the memory area occupied by IC3.

Connection to the target system via either the RC2014 compatible X1 connector, or via SK1 on the bottom side of the board to connect to the Z80 socket of the target system.

Take care that link selection is correct to match your target system, and Address decoding does not allow a conflict between IC3 and the target system to avoid damage.

Basic operation.

Set RUN/STEP switch and SKIP/ALTER switch to centre positions, apply power or operate reset switch.

LED1-16 will show the current address generated by the Z80.

LED17-24 will show the data at the current address.

Momentary selection of the SKIP switch will increment the address generated by the Z80 by forcing a NOP on the data bus and single instruction stepping the Z80.

Momentary selection of the ALTER switch will write the settings of the data switches S5-12 to the memory addressed by the Z80.

Momentary selection of the STEP switch will single instruction step the Z80 to execute the instruction at the current address, and stop at the first byte of the next instruction.

To select a different address to edit or execute, either SKIP sequentially to the required address, or STEP to execute instructions until the required address is reached.

TIP. You can edit any memory address by placing a jump instruction at address 0x000, example 0xC3, 0x00, 0xFF, RESET the address back to 0x0000, then STEP to execute the jump to the required address.

After entering a short program using the above method, apply RESET and switch to RUN.

LED25 indicates HALT and can be used to indicate completion of the code entered.
